For Loops
For loops are very practical and work
very well in Bash one-liners.
This type of loop is used to perform a
given set of commands for
each of the items in a list.
Let’s briefly inspect its general syntax:
The for loop will take each item in the
list (in order)…
…assign that item as the value of the
variable var-name…
…perform the given action between do and
done…
and then go back to the top, grab the
next item in the list,
and repeat the steps until the list is
exhausted.
Let’s take a look at a more practical
example that will quickly
print the first 10 IP addresses in a given
subnet.
In this Bash one-liner, we use the seq,
or sequence,
command to print a sequence of numbers,
in this case the numbers one through ten.
Each number is then assigned to the ip
variable…
and then each IP address is displayed to
the screen
as the for loop runs multiple times…
…executing at the end of the sequence.
Another way of re-writing the previous
for loop
involves brace expansion using ranges.
With brace expansion using ranges,
we supply the first and last values of
the range.
This can be a sequence of numbers or
characters.
This is known as a “sequence expression”.
There is a lot of potential for this type
of loop.
Displaying IP addresses to the screen may
not seem very useful
but we could use the same loop to ping
each IP address,
run a port scan using nmap, etc.